documentation/modules/ROOT/pages/01-setup.adoc, before:

= Setup
include::_attributes.adoc[]

[#prerequisite]
== Prerequisite CLI tools

include::https://raw.githubusercontent.com/redhat-developer-demos/rhd-tutorial-common/master/prerequisites-kubernetes.adoc[]
|===

include::https://raw.githubusercontent.com/redhat-developer-demos/rhd-tutorial-common/master/optional-requisites.adoc[]
|===


== IDE

You can use any IDE for this tutorial but if you didn't try it before, we recommend https://code.visualstudio.com/download[VS Code, window="_blank"] with the https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=redhat.java[Language Support for Java(TM) by Red Hat, window="_blank"] and the https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=redhat.vscode-quarkus[Quarkus, window="_blank"] extensions.

[#rhodc]
== Red Hat OpenShift development cluster

You can provision your own development environment at https://developers.redhat.com/developer-sandbox/get-started[https://developers.redhat.com/developer-sandbox/get-started]:

[.mt-4.center]
image::sandbox-account.png[Sandbox Image,400,400,align="center"]

[#downloadtutorial]
== Get tutorial sources

:tutorial-url: https://github.com/redhat-scholars/cloud-native-apps.git
:folder: my_folder
include::https://raw.githubusercontent.com/redhat-developer-demos/rhd-tutorial-common/master/download-sources.adoc[]

Commit message:

instructions for Web Terminal Operator were added.

documentation/modules/ROOT/pages/01-setup.adoc, after:

= Setup
include::_attributes.adoc[]

[#prerequisite]
== Prerequisite CLI tools

include::https://raw.githubusercontent.com/redhat-developer-demos/rhd-tutorial-common/master/prerequisites-kubernetes.adoc[]
|===

include::https://raw.githubusercontent.com/redhat-developer-demos/rhd-tutorial-common/master/optional-requisites.adoc[]
|===


== IDE

You can use any IDE for this tutorial but if you didn't try it before, we recommend https://code.visualstudio.com/download[VS Code, window="_blank"] with the https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=redhat.java[Language Support for Java(TM) by Red Hat, window="_blank"] and the https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=redhat.vscode-quarkus[Quarkus, window="_blank"] extensions.

[#rhodc]
== Red Hat OpenShift development cluster

You can provision your own development environment at https://developers.redhat.com/developer-sandbox/get-started[https://developers.redhat.com/developer-sandbox/get-started]:

[.mt-4.center]
image::sandbox-account.png[Sandbox Image,400,400,align="center"]

[#wot]
== Web Terminal Operator

During some exercises we will use the Web Terminal Operator. 
This operator is already installed in the Red Hat OpenShift Developer Sandbox and it enables you to launch an embedded command line terminal instance in the OpenShift web console.

* To launch the web terminal, click the command line terminal icon 

image::odc-icon.png[50, 50]
on the upper right of the console. A web terminal instance is displayed in the Command line terminal pane. This instance is automatically logged in with your credentials.

* Select the project where the DevWorkspace Custom Resource must be created from the Project drop-down list. By default, the current project is selected.

* Click **Start** to initialize the web terminal using the selected project.

* Type `help` to list the available command line tools.

[.mt-4.center]
image::web-terminal-operator.png[Sandbox Image,600,600,align="center"]


[#downloadtutorial]
== Get tutorial sources

:tutorial-url: https://github.com/redhat-scholars/cloud-native-apps.git
:folder: my_folder
include::https://raw.githubusercontent.com/redhat-developer-demos/rhd-tutorial-common/master/download-sources.adoc[]
