documentation/modules/ROOT/pages/02-codeready.adoc, before:

:markup-in-source: verbatim,attributes,quotes
:CHE_URL: http://codeready-workspaces.%APPS_HOSTNAME_SUFFIX%
:USER_ID: %USER_ID%
:OPENSHIFT_PASSWORD: %OPENSHIFT_PASSWORD%
:OPENSHIFT_CONSOLE_URL: https://console-openshift-console.%APPS_HOSTNAME_SUFFIX%/topology/ns/my-project{USER_ID}?view=graph

= Get your Developer Workspace
:navtitle: Get your Developer Workspace

_10 MINUTE EXERCISE_

In this lab you will learn about providing your Developer Workspace with a Kubernetes-native development platform
and getting familiar with the OpenShift CLI and OpenShift Web Console.

[#what_is_rhos_dev_spaces]
== What is Red Hat OpenShift Dev Spaces?

[sidebar]
--
[window=_blank, align="center"]
image::dev-spaces-graphic.png[OpenShift Dev Spaces, 400]

https://access.redhat.com/products/red-hat-openshift-dev-spaces[OpenShift Dev Spaces^] is a Kubernetes-native IDE and developer collaboration platform.

As an open-source project, the core goals of https://access.redhat.com/products/red-hat-openshift-dev-spaces[OpenShift Dev Spaces^]  are to:

* **Accelerate project and developer onboarding:** As a zero-install development environment that runs in your browser, https://access.redhat.com/products/red-hat-openshift-dev-spaces[OpenShift Dev Spaces^]  makes it easy for anyone to join your team and contribute to a project.
* **Remove inconsistency between developer environments:** No more: “But it works on my machine.” Your code works exactly the same way in everyone’s environment.
* **Provide built-in security and enterprise readiness:** As https://access.redhat.com/products/red-hat-openshift-dev-spaces[OpenShift Dev Spaces^]  becomes a viable replacement for VDI solutions, it must be secure and it must support enterprise requirements, such as role-based access control and the ability to remove all source code from developer machines.

To achieve those core goals, https://access.redhat.com/products/red-hat-openshift-dev-spaces[OpenShift Dev Spaces^]  provides:

* **Workspaces:** Container-based developer workspaces providing all the tools and dependencies needed to code, build, test, run, and debug applications.
* **Browser-based IDEs:** Bundled browser-based IDEs with language tooling, debuggers, terminal, source control (SCM) integration, and much more.
* **Extensible platform:** Bring your own IDE. Define, configure, and extend the tools that you need for your application by using plug-ins, which are compatible with Visual Studio Code extensions.
* **Enterprise Integration:** Multi-user capabilities, including Keycloak for authentication and integration with LDAP or AD.
--

[#get_your_developer_workspace]
== Getting your Developer Workspace with a single click

https://access.redhat.com/products/red-hat-openshift-dev-spaces[OpenShift Dev Spaces^]  will provide you an out-of-box
*Developer Workspace* with all the tools and the dependencies we need to do the job. **And with only one single click!**

[NOTE]
.Devfile
====
https://access.redhat.com/products/red-hat-openshift-dev-spaces[OpenShift Dev Spaces^] uses https://devfile.io/docs/2.1.0/what-is-a-devfile[Devfiles^] to automate the provisioning of a specific workspace by defining:

* projects to clone
* browser IDE to use
* preconfigured commands
* tools that you need
* application runtime definition

Providing a devfile.yaml file inside a Git source repository signals to https://access.redhat.com/products/red-hat-openshift-dev-spaces[OpenShift Dev Spaces^] to configure the project and runtime according
to this file.
====

Go to your Red Hat Developer Sandbox and click on the 'Red Hat OpenShift Dev Spaces' button:

image::dev-spaces-button.png[Developer Workspace - Button, 300]

This will provision `OpenShift Dev Spaces` in a new tab. 

Once completed, you will have a fully functional Browser-based IDE with the source code already imported.

Commit message:

minor improvements to code ready section

documentation/modules/ROOT/pages/02-codeready.adoc, after:

:markup-in-source: verbatim,attributes,quotes
:CHE_URL: http://codeready-workspaces.%APPS_HOSTNAME_SUFFIX%
:USER_ID: %USER_ID%
:OPENSHIFT_PASSWORD: %OPENSHIFT_PASSWORD%
:OPENSHIFT_CONSOLE_URL: https://console-openshift-console.%APPS_HOSTNAME_SUFFIX%/topology/ns/my-project{USER_ID}?view=graph

= Access your Developer Workspace
:navtitle: Get your Developer Workspace

_10 MINUTE EXERCISE_

In this lab you will learn about providing your Developer Workspace with a Kubernetes-native development platform
and getting familiar with the OpenShift CLI and OpenShift Web Console.

[#what_is_rhos_dev_spaces]
== What is Red Hat OpenShift Dev Spaces?

[sidebar]
--
[window=_blank, align="center"]
image::dev-spaces-graphic.png[OpenShift Dev Spaces, 400]

https://access.redhat.com/products/red-hat-openshift-dev-spaces[OpenShift Dev Spaces^] is a Kubernetes-native IDE and developer collaboration platform.

As an open-source project, the core goals of https://access.redhat.com/products/red-hat-openshift-dev-spaces[OpenShift Dev Spaces^]  are to:

* **Accelerate project and developer onboarding:** As a zero-install development environment that runs in your browser, https://access.redhat.com/products/red-hat-openshift-dev-spaces[OpenShift Dev Spaces^]  makes it easy for anyone to join your team and contribute to a project.
* **Remove inconsistency between developer environments:** No more: “But it works on my machine.” Your code works exactly the same way in everyone’s environment.
* **Provide built-in security and enterprise readiness:** As https://access.redhat.com/products/red-hat-openshift-dev-spaces[OpenShift Dev Spaces^]  becomes a viable replacement for VDI solutions, it must be secure and it must support enterprise requirements, such as role-based access control and the ability to remove all source code from developer machines.

To achieve those core goals, https://access.redhat.com/products/red-hat-openshift-dev-spaces[OpenShift Dev Spaces^]  provides:

* **Workspaces:** Container-based developer workspaces providing all the tools and dependencies needed to code, build, test, run, and debug applications.
* **Browser-based IDEs:** Bundled browser-based IDEs with language tooling, debuggers, terminal, source control (SCM) integration, and much more.
* **Extensible platform:** Bring your own IDE. Define, configure, and extend the tools that you need for your application by using plug-ins, which are compatible with Visual Studio Code extensions.
* **Enterprise Integration:** Multi-user capabilities, including Keycloak for authentication and integration with LDAP or AD.
--

[#get_your_developer_workspace]
== Accessing your Developer Workspace with a single click

https://access.redhat.com/products/red-hat-openshift-dev-spaces[OpenShift Dev Spaces^] provides a *Developer Workspace* out of the box, with all the tools and the dependencies we need to complete the lab. **And with only one single click!**

[NOTE]
.Devfile
====
https://access.redhat.com/products/red-hat-openshift-dev-spaces[OpenShift Dev Spaces^] uses https://devfile.io/docs/2.1.0/what-is-a-devfile[Devfiles^] to automate the provisioning of a specific workspace by defining:

* projects to clone
* browser IDE to use
* preconfigured commands
* tools that you need
* application runtime definition

Providing a devfile.yaml file inside a Git source repository signals to https://access.redhat.com/products/red-hat-openshift-dev-spaces[OpenShift Dev Spaces^] to configure the project and runtime according
to this file.
====

Go to your Red Hat Developer Sandbox and click on the 'Red Hat OpenShift Dev Spaces' button:

image::dev-spaces-button.png[Developer Workspace - Button, 300]

This will provision *OpenShift Dev Spaces* in a new tab. 

Once completed, you will have a fully functional browser-based IDE.
